[Music]
your life is a series of actions that
you initiate or don't initiate and that
your thoughts are gonna control that
roadmap and so how are you using your
mind today to either make yourself feel
great or not I posted on Instagram this
morning I said listen your destinies
ultimately controlled do by a decision
you've already made this morning
everyone watching this already made a
decision this morning this morning they
made it a life-changing huge decision
this morning and that is either I'm
gonna get up enter the world with no
intention go through the motions to
hopefully get by or survive or I am
going to get clear in this morning about
what I want what I'm going after who I'm
going to be how I'm gonna serve and
whether or not I'm gonna be excellent
and extraordinary or not
and the problem is most people never
make that conscious decision
[Music]
everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is widely recognized as
the world's leading high performance
coach he's written a gaggle of books and
top virtually every bestseller this
there is including the New York Times
Wall Street Journal and Amazon I've
gotten to know him personally over the
last couple years and I can say that I
am not at all surprised by the fact that
some of the world's most successful
people have enlisted him as their coach
he's worked with everyone from Fortune
50 CEOs to athletes and celebrities like
Usher and Oprah and he's the guy that
millions of people all over the world
turn to when they want to break through
to that next level he's one of the top
100 most followed social influencers on
Facebook with over 10 million followers
his podcasts the charge life debuted at
number one on iTunes and stayed in the
self-help top 10 for roughly 100 weeks
more than 2 million students from over
190 countries have taken his online
courses and his video series has been
seen over 100 million times his experts
Academy was ranked by Entrepreneur
Magazine as one of the five must attend
events for all entrepreneurs and his
recent digital magazine and live event
series influencer has launched to
sold-out crowds and much fanfare so
please help me in welcoming the man
oprah.com named one of the most
successful online trainers in history
the author of high-performance habits my
good friend Brendon Burchard let me run
it thank you thank you good good to have
you pumped it is very exciting to be
back with you we've actually spent a
fair amount of time over the last few
months together and over the last about
18 months two years maybe now that we've
done some legitimate time yeah and right
now half the audience is thinking this
guy is he's acting like that for camera
and I can just tell you right now he's
always like this the amount of energy
that you have is thank you really
extraordinary and I want to talk to you
about carbs carbs that's a lot of fun
these I want to talk to you about
consciously designing your life it's an
idea that I see live day in and day out
thank you everything in your world seems
completely integrated the people that
you hang out with the things you do to
have the energy the things you focus on
and make sure that you remain excited
like it all feels like there's nothing
that sort of by accident in your life so
what's the whole concept and how do you
actually pull it off you know I think
I've talked about this last time a
little bit with my car accident so when
I was a 19 year old kid I had this car
accident and prior to the car accident I
had been suicidal and you know coming
out of breakup with the woman I loved I
lost my identity in that became suicidal
had the car accident and it was just
powerful juxtaposition because here I am
suicidal want to take my life and then I
get an accident that says oh no I don't
want to die and it forced me to consider
how I will evaluate my life at the end
of my life and that has always been the
driving force for me is I realized the
end of my life for me personally I'm
gonna ask these questions to evaluate
was I happy with my life and those from
yard did I live did I love did I matter
which isn't some people watching like so
what but I was 19 and it's set in me and
so if you think about it you know that
was what 23 years ago if you wake up
every day with a super clear intention
and reverence for life realizing how
short it is you absolutely get your act
together but how do you like how do you
really turn that into a road map and
start doing the right things because one
I think a lot of people could waste a
moment like that the eye-opening thing a
lot of people could do it for a while
and without without concrete things to
do on a daily basis like what I really
want people to understand in all the
research you've done in high performance
and all that it comes down to things
that you can do it comes down to things
you can teach it comes down to things
that people can structure their life
rendom and what I want to dive into
today is that structure yeah you know
it's funny is like I think you nailed it
people take an eye-opening experience
and some don't do
with it and some people grow from it and
I came back from that experience I was
in college and prior to coming back I
was a depressed kid the sad kid kind of
lonely kid kind of pull away from the
world kid guy was hurt I came back and I
had this new intention to live so I
wanted to meet people and talk to people
they're like who are you and anytime you
change your life usually people are like
what's wrong with you so I was like
what's wrong with you but I was like I'm
gonna change cuz I knew I didn't want
misery anymore I didn't want suffering I
didn't want sadness I think want
negative thinking I didn't want poor
quality of relationships I didn't want
to feel horrible so I began the quest oh
well how do I not feel horrible so I
started reading first I started personal
development self-help then jumped into
spirituality then jumped into psychology
then jumped into neuroscience then
jumped into sociology then jumped into
leadership and spent every week for 23
years I've read a book a week on one of
those topics for 23 years I went to the
seminars about the audio courses so I
listened to Dale Carnegie Leah Napoleon
Hill and Earl Nightingale and Jim Rohn
and Zig Ziglar and Louise Hay and
Marianne Williamson and Debby Ford and
Tony Robbins and Wayne Dyer Deepak
Chopra Brian Tracy and I went down deep
like I'm very much like you I'm
obsessive so I got obsessive into
psychology Carl Rogers Alfred a the Roy
balm Meister Abraham Maslow all of the
positive psychology work that was
developing at the time that was becoming
bigger and bigger and bigger well some
of the early things you were pulling out
of that to begin changing I'm guessing
you didn't lay in the hospital bed and
yeah and have the revelation of all the
things you needed to do to your mind
yeah to get out so what were in those
early days you're reading these books
what are some of the first things that
begin to hit you like I remember I had a
transformational moment with Napoleon
Hill and yes rich yeah and that was a
real demarcation point for me the notion
of oh if you're if you think you can you
can and if you think you can't you can't
yeah and that was that was one of those
things that just sort of cut to the
heart of everything for me and became
something I could circle my mind around
yeah what were some of those early
things for you
first and foremost is exactly what you
start the show with this is conscious
design it's like your life doesn't end
up an accident your life is a series of
actions that you initiate or don't
initiate and that your thoughts are
gonna control that roadmap and so how
are you using your mind today to either
make yourself feel great or not I posted
on Instagram this morning I said listen
your destinies ultimately controlled do
by a decision you've already made this
morning everyone watching this already
made a decision this morning this
morning they made it a life-changing
huge decision this morning and that is
either I'm gonna get up enter the world
with no intention go through the motions
to hopefully get by or survive or I am
going to get clear in this morning about
what I want what I'm going after who I'm
going to be how I'm gonna serve and
whether or not I'm gonna be excellent
and extraordinary or not
and the problem is most people never
make that conscious decision so and so I
was learning early on make the conscious
decision about who you want to be each
day stay congruent with that and that
was you know for me a kid who's just
going through the motions all of a
sudden going oh who do I want to be what
do I want my relationships to be like
that was really important and then I
started setting personal challenges
every month at the beginning of each
month are this whole thing where I
holistically evaluate my life on the 1st
of every month and it's like these 10
different categories in my life you know
from emotional to relational to
financial to you know career mission
objectives all these things I go down
that on the first month just kind of
holistic viewpoint of my life and that I
set a personal challenge and a
professional challenge and I do that
every month every Sunday I revisit my
progress every Sunday for 23 years so
it's not like I'm just you know one day
ended up in a happy life it was like
that a level of self-evaluation that
most people avoid until their birthday
or New Year's I do it every Sunday and
every 1st of the month and I don't ever
miss and I think that has helped me kind
of know what my thing is because I don't
think I'm super special it's like what I
help people do
you know this is chapter one and if hi
Foreman's habits right seek clarity the
only reason I get to work with all these
people you mentioned because they're at
a new level and their life where they're
going what is it now for me and I help
them kind of figure that out like what
is it now for you about how you want to
define yourself what types of
relationships you want and how deep you
want to go what is it that you want to
develop as a skill sets and what is the
specific service you want to provide and
I just work them through that because
I've been working through that myself
you know so let's say it's a Sunday and
what what does that look like you
sitting down at a desk by yourself
headphones on Journal out are you
sitting at a computer you write by hand
what is the the physical processor desk
journal green tea desk journal green tea
and by myself doors closed no phones no
computer just sitting and thinking about
it do you that self of the process is
huge
do you write as you think sometimes not
always so when if you're not gonna write
as you think is it a meditative practice
like are you sitting there so if I'm
trying to think through a problem I'll
sit myself down I in a ideally a
completely dark room if the Sun is
already up then I'll put something over
my head so that it's at least dark to me
I've got over the ear headphones I'm
listening to the sound of a thunderstorm
something that just completely collapses
my world down to two inside my mind
basically and I'll return to either a
visual image or a very simple sentence
like one that I'm doing right now
because we're attempting to get neon
future one of the projects fiction
projects that we're doing thank you
turned into a different format the
simple phrase if I come back to is
reboot neon future so like what does
that look like imagined in this new way
and so I'll sit there and then imagery
words whatever begin to flow and then
I'll start I do that but I'm actually
typing so I'll then I'll type out my
ideas and I definitely type as I think
so what is that it is it like I would
say my process is very meditative yeah
is yours meditative is
so for that the Sunday thing it's really
self evaluative and very planning
oriented so it's like where am i what I
need to do this week this month and just
checking with my calendar so on Sundays
a lot of is like just deleting things
but the separate processing what things
meetings blocks of time Thanks looked
for what's coming you know yes because
most my schedules been booked six months
seven months out certainly given Sunday
when I'm going through my value the
process of what's important what did I
need to work on I look at the schedule
and notice oh wow here's that chunk of
thing we scheduled three months ago
delete I thought was gonna be here
delete just like really clipping at the
calendar most people don't have a
calendar so that's problem number one
they're not strategically blocking time
moving towards the major things they
want in their life they won't say
they're going through the motions but
the calendar reveals it like if I
parachute in their life and I opened up
their calendar and there's nothing there
they can't possibly say they're living
with purpose or intention and that
sounds so flippant to say but I can't
believe how many people they're not
planning their skillset development
they're not planning specific goal
attainment on certain dates so just like
their counter is completely empty and
they're hoping it's gonna happen and
it's like you look at mine it's like
it's like military s like planning like
I'm going to hit these goals it's going
to happen so that's a piece of it but to
what you were saying about the
meditative process I also every morning
lay in bed and I visualize what I want
and I see it like when I first when I
wake up I literally just lay there for
an extra two three four minutes and I
just kind of visualize and I'm thinking
about the things that I want so that
happens every morning are you willing to
share an example actual example so from
age of 20 to 26 probably 90% of the time
I would lay there and I would see myself
on stages big stages and I would sit
there and see that image came up I'd
freak out
I got imagine myself walking on a stage
with an arena and I would literally just
start sweating in bed I'd lay there in
bed terrified like just awfully
uncomfortable
because that wasn't me but I was like
everyone was saying your car accident
story brilliant really made a difference
in my life this whole idea of having
reverence for life and having you know
the intention of who you want to be all
these simple things that we talk about
personal vomit but I would share my
story of people and think oh my gosh you
need to teach that and I was like you
know I started hearing that I said maybe
I learner to teach I'll learn to talk
I'll even be more expressive because
where I'm from I grew up in Irish mining
town that it had been economically
depressed for a century like men didn't
communicate there was no emotional
expression if their hands came above
their waist they were punching you in
the face you know I mean it was a very
physical and very violent place I grew
up in but there wasn't emotional
expression so I laid there and I'd see
myself like talking and moving onstage
you visualize yourself on stage what
people are watching now or listening now
if you close your eyes and you see
yourself on stage public speaking with
no podium no notes to 10,000 people in
arena most people will get clammy hands
and start sweating if you really see it
and think about it and feel it and put
yourself there for two to three minutes
I did that for six years for three to
five minutes every morning I'd hear
myself saying something I'd see myself
moving I'd see the audience clapping or
jumping up at the end I'd see myself
moving across the stage in ways I never
moved and that visualization created
that skill set because then I'd go and
I'd sometimes I'd wake up and I was good
I try it out on the carpet you know I
don't get up oh I like that I try it out
and I try it out just in my little dorm
room then my little apartment and I was
always trying things out and I always
wanted to get better at it and always
want to get better at it so it just
depends sometimes it's a specific goal
like right now I'm also working on some
you know major media goals and so I'm
seeing myself and hearing myself talk
through the deal with the people I'm
pitching the second visualization I do
in the morning comes later so I get up
in the morning I drink 20 ounces of
water
I do 20 minutes of mobility movement and
stretching every morning then I read for
20 minutes something positive for me
it's almost always a self-help book or
lead
almost always sometimes a business but
almost always self album and leadership
read that book then I go and I sit down
with my high performance planner my
green tea I fill out the day right I
look at the blocks of time that are
already scheduled and then what I use my
second visualization which is I look at
the major blocks of time that have been
scheduled
just like this this morning and I close
my eyes and I think how do I do that
thing with excellence what would make
that thing special so this morning
before I got here when I thought about
this because there's no my high
performance planner impact Theory Tom
Bill you oh yes three exclamation points
literally so I looked at the schedule it
closed my eyes and I thought okay what
do I want to communicate on Tom's show
how do I want that to feel what do I
want to communicate with it so I
literally closed my eyes and I
visualized those blocks of time and how
would I do them well that's a superpower
most people write their day out and they
just go about the day and then they
sometimes they come back to the plan
they go oh my god I didn't even do it
because I sit there and I think about
how do I do that well that's a
game-changer
how do you actually audit yourself how
do you hold yourself accountable yeah
what are the standards by which you're
measuring yourself which is that alone I
think is important yeah and that's
something that I feel like if I were
gonna put my finger on a high
performance habit I would say for sure
my ability to look naked ly at how I'm
performing like yes almost
dispassionately me to not I'm not
beating myself up I'm not celebrating my
I'm just saying like either it's worth
objectively so how do you do that well
in spirituality it's just called being
the observer so you're observing your
life dispassionately from a place of
mindfulness and understanding where the
judgment isn't there that's negative and
so that's a huge part of it because a
lot of people the reason they hate
self-audits then they hate
self-evaluation because it feels bad but
they're letting it feel bad like instead
just like how do I perceive this and
think through instead what my real
intention should be so how do I do it
and others do it first I have my high
performance planner which literally
details out but if you don't have that
forms planner here's a simple thing to
do three things I want you to do every
day first I want you to write ten
prompts for the morning for yourself ten
prompts those prompts for you might say
how can we how can I be a great mother
today how can I show appreciation to
someone on my team today it might say
how do I care for my health today it
might say three words I want to keep in
mind all day you know the message I have
for myself today is this the most
difficult thing I'm gonna face today
would be this and the best way my best
self could overcome it is this two big
long-term projects to keep in mind are
this right those like write down ten
prompts so the high performance planner
begins in the morning there's the ten
prompts that we know correlate with
long-term success that we've measured
there they are so I feel that every
morning second thing on what you do at
the end of the night ten more prompts
would I learn about myself today would I
learn about other people today did I
demonstrate my best today where did I
not where did I get stuck where'd I get
frustrated what a negative thought that
I have today that I don't need to have
anymore
you know how did I treat people today
did I move as swiftly towards my goals
today that type of thing but the other
piece about it is at night I do the
scorecard so we for me it's the six
habits of high performance now clarity
energy necessity productivity influence
and courage and so there's a it's like
there's the word clarity and it says was
I very clear about exactly what I need
to do today to move forward score one to
five and so what you added the third
thing I want to build your scorecard for
the other night and your scorecard might
say dad your scorecard might say leader
your scorecard might say specific but
what I admit it is habit driven so it's
generate energy did I generate the
energy I needed today to deliver my best
productivity did I avoid distraction
today and only focus on the needle
moving activities and what do you do if
the answer is a
low score on something it's always it
there's so many low scores in there I
just know I'm aware of it and I take
that and what I do is I flip the page
for the next day of the planner and I
just write down don't get stuck here
don't do this you know it's just it's a
constant learning process the nice thing
about self-awareness is the human brain
has an incredible capacity for guilt and
most people unconsciously let that roll
over them and kick their butt and make a
horrible life I love guilt guilt is a
tool guilt is a weapon guilt does not
have to be a bad thing it's not like I
perpetuate but I'm like I love that I
feel bad when I don't do a good job most
people hate that about themselves I love
that feeling like I didn't do a good job
there next time I will so some people
guilt is discouragement other people
it's a signal for learning to me guilt
is a signal for learning it is the body
and the brain the spirit knowing what is
right knowing what is wrong knowing
what's great knowing what's mediocre and
it's saying hey do a little better now
if it's translated in a negative impulse
then some people call it guilt but I'm
like I'm totally cool with oh you know I
think it's good that we feel bad when we
do something that is below our standard
or that's not right because that impulse
to go I want to do that better like I
wanted to make sure my I want to come
back to my morning visualization I'm
gonna be on Tom frigging bill you show
when my favorite people on the planet I
tell all my people to listen to your
show watch your show like everybody
every you know like the other day I was
literally coaching a billionaire and I
was like I'm supposed to be with Tom
Bill you right now you got to watch this
stuff like everybody I'm Tom Tom Tom so
this morning I was thinking like how
would I make that X how would I feel
good being on Tom's show so when I was
visualizing that the one thing I would
make sure I did today was acknowledge
you for how incredible of a speaker you
would become well because I saw you two
years ago and the tom bill you on the
stage today is fundamentally the same
it's the same man the congruence is
there but the performance and the talent
and the
our with the audience has gone like this
like you've gone from a passionate dude
to the best speakers in America right
now
thank you ma'am and watching that I know
that is because the impulse is like you
know when you come off stage and you
crush it or when you're like I can do
better and that impulse that desire to
learn and drive and do better is
something that doesn't always feel good
because it says also I kind of screwed
up over there but when you can
dispassionately recognize your
performance and go I actually want to
become great at this all of your
psychological and spiritual energies
kind of align a little bit to saying
let's grow then and if you can allow
that impulse and deal with that anxiety
and that discomfort that comes with it
just like when I was laying in bed for
six years in an awkward super weird dude
sweating in de Lille profusely sweating
thinking about speaking people like
profusely sweating I endured that
visualization that practice that trial
to for myself to become good and was
part of the thing that you're practicing
when you're doing that is it not having
the anxiety response is that is that
what you're trying to get to or are you
just visualizing over and over and over
I would move like this I would say
things like this yeah was it purely
tactical for you
well luckily I just knew that
psychologically with familiarity you
know the odds of decreasing anxiety is
extremely high so it's basically like
running a simulation that simulation
exactly like a pilot running that
simulation over and over and over if
you're a pilot and you run the
simulation that crash is 50 times the
first ten you're mortified the last you
know 12 you're on the dials you know and
so I think there's running the pattern
over and over visually is really
powerful the world completely
underestimates the power of
visualization completely miss utilizes
the human power of contemplation you
know the number one thing I say to my
high performance clients is going
through the motions is the death of
hyper
high performers don't go through the
motions yeah they're contemplated
they're intentional they're thoughtful
they've practice
they want it to go well and the reason
most people don't do that is because the
pressure it puts a lot of pressure on
yourself but that's what makes people
great hmm I think you're very right
about that notion of contemplation and
the willingness to feel badly about
something I think self reward and self
punishment is really really important
yes and you I think that if people don't
sort of automatically have the guilty
thing which they probably do it's more a
willingness to lean into that and to say
okay this is actually gonna serve me
this is gonna work for me
and I I actually do wonder sometimes you
know somebody who now basically has a
profession of giving advice at least on
the one side of what I do and so I think
a lot about like who should actually
take my advice because my advice is not
going to lead to a carefree easy life
Lisa was just saying she was laying in
bed last night thinking about me and she
said how the [__] does he do it because
there's there's just a level of things
that I'm willing to take on and I don't
one I'm not even sure it's healthy for
me and two I'm certainly not certain
that it's healthy for other people but
what I do know is that I have a level of
thrill and pleasurable obsession around
it so for me it's fun so when I think
about the the guilt or the momentary
pain of [__] something up and you
talk about me getting better as a
speaker it's like that journey is it is
a very simple journey that requires you
though to really accept that you're not
very good at things right now and that
that's fine and so a big key for me has
always been to think of my life not in
the Lent not the lens of a moment mm-hmm
and I used to tell this to my employees
all the time like stop judging yourself
through the lens of a moment and start
judging yourself to the lens of ten
years if you think of yourself in ten
year increments like you will blow your
[__] mind so if you're embarrassed
today about where you are don't compare
yourself even to yesterday which may not
soothe that and encourage you to push
forward think back 10 years my gut
instinct is unless you've really been
treading water in which case then
leverage that pain to
never do that again but if you think
back to where you were 10 years chances
are like you're gonna be blown away with
how far you come and so then it's like
alright then I'm just gonna focus my
gaze 10 years in the future and start
saying what would I have to do to be
somewhere where I'd be blown away
then with where I'm at now yeah but it
really does require you to say okay I'm
the the pride that I'm going to
establish is actually around my
willingness to look at the fact that I'm
not good right now today yeah
and that to me is is it's really simple
but it is very hard to do for people
that are unintentional about their
emotional life so how have you learned
to read your emotions to not just give
in to them and to have the same kind of
high degree of you know consciousness
around how you shape that as well one
revisiting it a lot but let's give a
framework to what you're talking about
and we'll drop into the emotion piece is
I love that you keep saying it's simple
and for some people they don't think
that way so it's not simple so let's
give a framework number one what we're
really talking about here is
contemplation really thinking through
and using the power of thought of what
you want what do you want to be like
what are the skills you want to deliver
what's the service you want to offer the
world number two the consistency of
action to not only create that in your
own body in your own mind but create
that start creating that result in the
world that's really important
number three is courage because it takes
courage to put yourself out there and
try to get a little better like it was
even just laying in bed visualizing
myself doing something on stage that was
way outside my boundaries of like
comfort like walk across the stage
really fast like walk down in the
audience and give high-fives and you
know say something strong or you know
admit something or share something
vulnerable like that's courage that's
scary but the other thing is I think
that you and I have always had which
sometimes is undervalued is we also had
community we had other people or right
you had Lisa you know I had Denise we
had
people in our industry or our peer set
who we looked up to or who we can learn
from or we could be like this sucks this
is hard and for me coming back to your
emotional element that has been
everything for me community having
people in my life who I can you know
when I'm on the road for X amount of
time or I'm dealing with a super hard
client or we're rolling out a Leadership
Program to a fortune 50 company or you
know I'm doing my first you know major
deal with Oprah Winfrey Network and I
don't know what to do I am so incredibly
fast of asking people to do I'm also
incredibly fast in sharing how I feel
about it being like ah you know I feel
really awkward about this you know I'm
unsure you know I may have a lot of self
doubt how would you deal with it like
I'm somebody who expresses his emotions
all the time my frigging tagline is
bring the joy like everybody knows that
why because I want to make sure people
know you're we're going to create this
energy because emotion is not something
you have it is something you generate
emotion can be an impulse but feelings
is our interpretations of those impulse
over a period of time and I said I want
to feel vibrancy joy love connection
satisfaction fulfillment in my life so
I'm gonna learn to generate those
emotions how do you learn to generate
the emotions you read psychology how do
you learn to generate the emotions you
try like you're just like I'm gonna go
we're gonna have date night tonight I'm
gonna make it a fun night I'm gonna make
it a fun night I'm gonna I'm gonna do
things to see can I make people laugh
can I make people turn their lights on
you learn to control your own emotions
and or deal with them in better ways as
you decide to be one more picture person
let me see how many people I can turn
off right now by dealing with another
element of this so everything you just
said is a true and be super powerful
there's an there is a different reason
that I say that it is simple and
admittedly this is because this is the
journey I had to go on but have you seen
Fight Club yeah
alright there's a part in Fight Club and
the gift that I would like to give the
world if I had which I did not but if I
had sat down and set my intention for
you know what do I want to convey that
this is one of my like top five things
that I want to get across to people if
you really want to succeed yeah there's
a moment in Fight Club
where he puts his hand out and the guy
puts a caustic solution on the back of
his hand
and it burns and he tells him that he
has to just leave it there and he ends
up holding his hand down so that he
can't take it away at first cuz it hurts
so badly and then finally he releases
and the guy has the strength to leave
his hand there and let it just burn and
what I'm saying is you have a mechanism
in your mind called the psychological
immune system it's job is get you to
pull your hand away to wash off the
thing that burns and hey you're fine
again yeah what I'm saying is if you
want to be great
the burning sensation is you having to
accept that you [__] something up that
you're not as good as you want to be
that there are people that are better
than you they are not far as far along
in the journey as you want to be and
what you have to learn how to do if you
want to be great you have to learn to
let it burn and even though your impulse
is gonna be to turn away from that to
not look at it to soothe it by saying
it's them it's their fault they [__]
it up I grew in the grow up in the wrong
place it's fine for them they're wealthy
like whatever excuse you use to try to
let yourself off the hook for not being
where you want to be instead of saying
actually the power is the ability to let
it burn and one of my employees was just
asking me yesterday and he said how do
you not get overwhelmed and I said you
want to know the God's honest truth
the second I feel that impulse Brendan I
say to myself you don't get overwhelmed
I'm I'm not gonna [__] back down I
will not break you cannot break me yeah
[__] that yeah get that [__] out of your
head right now yeah and just
interrupting that thought with an
aggressive impulse of like yeah I'm
gonna let it burn yeah now I'm not a
[__]
so I immediately go hey Thank You
psychology for letting me know that woo
there's a lot of things coming at me
right
yep so I'm gonna go meditate but the way
that I interrupt the thought is by
reminding myself not to be wheezing
control right 100 percent who's in
control is over OMA and control or you
in control or the all these different
situations making you feel something or
are you allowing yourself to interpret
something to make it that and so I think
that's incredibly powerful I mean I
think there's a yin and yang to that too
I think those who learn to endure
hardships struggle challenge difficulty
pain grief for mobility failure regret
that's one side of that coin if you
learn to do that but you also don't on
the other side learn to allow joy
fulfillment satisfaction a sense of Naha
well I'll have to stop you allow is that
the word you wanted me to I'm gonna said
bring I'm gonna build ok build it you
have to first allow it because what most
people do is if on the other side of the
coin it's super etched in what happens
is even when that impulse comes up - I
like this oh no I'm not supposed to like
it this way so you have a lot of people
who are extremely talented at the top
levels who they do endure the pain and
they really like the pain and they will
allow that all the day long they'll
allow that now cuz they'll tell their
brain this is what's expected but they
also don't let themselves feel good when
feeling good is there this is a real big
problem I mean if you study like
psychoses a lot of people who really
struggle with addictions eating
disorders are super common who even when
they feel that sense of self love or
self except I'm not supposed to feel
that no you really there is an element
to personal development or you have to
allow the good feelings and not push
them away because it's like well should
I don't deserve to feel that because a
huge part of the world is telling
themselves I don't yet deserve to feel
happy even though happiness comes up I
shouldn't feel that yet I'm gonna keep
striving it's not until I get the next
two million then I'll let myself feel
happy even though they had that
good Monday and so you have a lot of
people who are striving in difficulty
who also have not taught themselves the
emotional side of what is called the
most important movement in the history
of the world in psychology called
positive psychology kicked off with
Marty Seligman a good friend of mine me
Haley just sent me high without that
work of saying no no we also have to
allow ourselves and teach ourselves to
flourish feel satisfaction feel joy so
I'm a hundred percent with you and I'm
like the rule is that's one side of the
coin and the other rule is make sure you
teach yourself to generate the positive
emotions because what happens is if you
don't teach yourself to generate the
positive emotions as well then what is
happening is you burn out or you become
a cliche of the person who had it all
and never felt fulfilled and you know
our mutual friend Tony Robbins says like
that's ultimate failure to succeed
succeed succeed but never feel like a
success never feel like you've had it
like I'm vitally aware that you know I
could get on a plane and not survive
I'm vitally aware that tomorrow might
not be here for me I don't want to grit
and hustled out and never feel the joys
of life that satisfaction that pleasure
of you know what gosh good for you
you're trying hard Brennan today sucked
you failed today Brennan but you're
doing a good job kid stay in the game
feel some satisfaction that you tried
feel some fulfillment of that you know
because what I learned from high
performers this is not just Brennan's
personal opinion I've done this for 16
years at the highest levels and I see it
over and over it's usually when I get
the call it's like well I just sold my
company for you know hundreds of
millions and I crap I'm miserable and I
ask when someone says I can't figure out
Brenda you know everyone says I should
be happy I'm not I don't know what's
going on and they're edgy as hell about
like
geez look at the house look at the girl
look at the cars look at the thing I got
it all I'm freaking out man I don't know
why I did it all and I said well did you
ever teach yourself to be happy along
the way and they never did that work cuz
doing that work is what makes life
worthwhile - why are you so good at
relationships like what are a few of the
things that make you bond with people as
quickly as you do who I was convicted on
there must be an intention there so the
intention where the intention covers the
attention for me came from you know when
I was on my deathbed and in you know two
times in my life I thought I was gonna
die and the one that gave me the
greatest gift was that did I love part
of did I lived I loved I matter
I saw scenes of my life
when I thought I was gonna die I saw
scenes of my life when I was surrounded
by the people that I loved and my
instant feeling was I'm gonna miss them
and they're gonna miss me and I'm dying
and that's so sad and that was as
important as did I live my life or did I
make a difference it was like I'm so sad
and I got that as a 19 year old kid like
a breakup of a relationship sent me into
suicide that realization was like oh my
god at the end all you're gonna wonder
is about your family and your friends
and people you loved and all they're
they're gonna miss you so I got early
that that one of the objectives of this
game has to be deep relationships
because you're gonna see scenes of your
life surrounded people you love at the
very end and I'm like so live your life
so it's this epic beautiful movie and so
I think that was where the intention
came from was I just wanted to have
great relationships
the second is I'm so good at recognizing
how awesome people are you know I just I
have a talent fine
capability of just goodness like I you
know it you've been in my world I don't
attract hassles like there nowhere that
I'm too annoying I'm too happy for them
there's too much positive psychology
happening so the [__] like I don't
like that guy
they don't come to my seminars they
don't buy my stuff i repel all the jerks
and i'm super lucky by that i don't know
it's the way I look or the way that I
talk I think the other aspect is all I
want to do and what I realize early on
from reading personal down books is your
life creates a ripple and so I'm always
trying to realize that maybe I can make
somebody smile today and now when they
go home they're nice to the kid that's a
real thing and so I treat people with
that recognition because I don't fear
sometimes when someone treats you bad it
really does mess up the rest of your day
and I had people beat me when I was a
kid I got in fights when I was a kid I
was in martial arts most of my life so I
I've just had like super violent things
happen in my life I've had a lot of
drama with relationships early in my
life and I'm talking like pre 20s and I
just wanted to be the positive ripple I
love that dude where can people find out
more about you listen to the Brendan
show in my podcasts the Brendan show
because I'm really excited because we
we've basically taken some of the best I
have on all my online course I got 28
online personal development and
professional development courses we take
little clips of those best courses we
take clips of my live cast that people
pay for that they don't get to see we
put that on the Brendan show I'm really
proud of that podcast right now because
just the best of stuff is in there and
then just on Instagram on the ground man
just sharing my things but my favorite
place for people to meet me is in your
local bookstore go look for the bees
last name is Bechard
find those six books pick up one and if
you don't like it use it as a doorstop
or like a you know table leveler but my
first and greatest passion is that
people who I might I'm at a party in
pure like introduced like if
or somewhere how do I introduce you
bring Sam a writer I love writing books
Wow books saved my life
I hear that for sure alright I've
already asked you what the impact you
want to have on the world is and the
first time that we sat down together so
I'm gonna ask you a slight variation
what is the one change people could make
in their lives that would help them have
the biggest impact the one change yeah
what could they do or stop doing that
would allow them to have so many people
that watch this show if you ask them
what they want to do with their lives
they're gonna say I want to help people
or I want to have impact yeah but many
of them oh ok Hale to have the impact
they want to have because they aren't
doing X Y Z or they should start doing X
Y Z I have two answers but you're gonna
like it all they're totally in line and
this is one reason it works first one it
has to be a mindset shift specific one a
very specific one that's everyone's
struggling with right now which is
really giving yourself permission to
have the ambitions you have most people
are half hearted half interested half
engaged in their actual dream and actual
ambition because they either fear it or
they feel insecure and capable and
teaching people I literally just had
this conversation with my most
successful people in literally the like
the world and in the top point 0:01
percent category of revenue is has not
fully expressed and owned their ambition
instead people apologize for their
ambition hide their ambition you have to
learn to own your ambition speak of the
ambition chase the ambition Drive the
ambition and lead the ambition it is a
full both allowance back to the words
allowance of the ambition and an active
generation of that ambition the further
you are from your ambitions the more
miserable you are and most people don't
look at their goals every day so no
wonder we have a world that says I'm
disconnected it's like no wake up I ask
people jump did you look at your goals
today that's it simply that's literally
personal about 101 is have goals look at
them most people do not do that I want
you to not just not gold I want you to
deeply visualize feel
sense and talk about your ambitions way
more like way more like I love that
about you you're like I'm gonna build a
frigging Disney that's it and everybody
around you knows it you know how rare
that is it's one reason I love you I
people who were scared to communicate
about their ambitions are cheating
themselves in the world from supporting
them I coached an Olympian I love this
it's in high forms habit I wrote really
briefly about it but she had won several
World Records and World Championships
but never a medal and this was a big
goal for her and then she did and I was
working with her and then afterwards we
had this conversation I said we what
made the difference she says you know
what one day it wasn't training it
wasn't nutrition it wasn't diet wasn't
everything we talked about she was one
day I just I just started shouting from
the rooftops that I wanted to win a gold
medal I started telling everybody around
me and she had this great say she's when
you shout from the rooftops what you
wants two things happen one the village
idiots come out and judge you all the
village idiots she says but also the
village leaders come out go see this
let's let's set this person up buzzer
she said all of a sudden the right
coaches the right dieticians the right
former gold medalists the right
teammates started came out and all of a
sudden she had a community who were
galvanizing behind this vision and a
mission she had that she never achieved
even though nothing changed in her
physical body it was like she
communicated the ambition the tribe
arrived the goal was achieved a complete
game changer so allowing the ambition
shouting from rooftop that's the mindset
that is a behavior change that takes
real personal power real courage real
vulnerability whatever you want to call
it but most people don't do it that's
number one number two you have to have
daily intention and habit tracking you
you you can't leave your personal
development to randomness and what most
people do they leave their personal
growth to randomness and so they're
always in a land of mediocrity you have
to have that morning routine and that
evening routine of evaluating where you
are and where you want to go and asking
the hard questions of what is it about
me that's not moving forward what is it
about me that I need to accept love care
for take care of do a better job with
how do I treat other people so I can get
ahead faster what do I need to focus on
if you don't do that on a daily basis
you're going through the motions and
even if you're successful imagine how
much more successful you would be if you
were way more intentional and you
actually tracked your habits there's why
we developed a high performance planner
because I wanted it I was like I know
how easy it is to go through a day you
hustle all day and you crash at the end
of the day I know the hundred hour work
weeks I know how that feels I know what
that's about but if you're doing all
that and you're not aware that leads to
a nightmare that leads to you take the
wrong path and you're hustling down the
wrong path you leave the ladder against
the wrong building you do the wrong
thing the wareness on the daily is
something people need to build into a
routine and physicalize like right not a
note on your phone journal work book
planner something that you actually
connect pen to paper you think through
and if we can get you ambition clarified
ambition speak the ambition own the
ambition and you're actually intentional
in tracking each day you win this game
very well said yeah guys he says a lot
of things very well I highly encourage
you to go to the B section in the
bookstore and pick up all six of the
books they really are extraordinary
the deeper you dive into his world the
more you're gonna get out of it he is
one of the rare people that the more I
get to know him the more I like him the
more I'm affected by him so I hope that
you will avail yourself of all the
amazing stuff that he makes available
all right if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care Brandon my [__] thank
you dude it's good I was amazing all
right
there's always another loose
there's always another game system take
your game and Ratchet it down just a
drop and you're going to have another
game and he was right I didn't listen to
that to me winning is everything